README.md, before:

<picture>
  <source media="(min-width: 720px)" srcset="docs/header.svg">
  <img src="docs/header-mobile.svg" width="900" height="330" alt="GodotJS Logo">
</picture>

# **GodotJS**

***-- JavaScript and TypeScript language binding for Godot game engine --***

This module implements JavaScript/TypeScript language support for the Godot game engine using [QuickJS](https://bellard.org/quickjs/) as the JavaScript engine.


## Getting started

Read the [getting-started](https://godotjs.github.io/documentation/getting-started/).

## Features

- Almost complete ES2020 support
- All Godot API available
- Operator overriding for built-in types (Vector3, Color, etc)
- TypeScript support
- [Using third-party libraries from npm](https://github.com/GodotExplorer/ECMAScriptDemos/tree/master/npm_module)
- Multi-thread support with Worker API
- Full code completion support for all Godot APIs including signals and enumerations
- Debug in Visual Studio Code with the [plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=geequlim.godot-javascript-debug) - currently not available for 4.x

## Getting the engine

No installation or setup necessary. The binaries for download are the complete, usable Godot editor and engine with JavaScript/TypeScript language support.

### Binary downloads

Download the binaries from the [release page](https://github.com/GodotExplorer/ECMAScript/releases).

### Compiling from source

- Clone the source code of [godot](https://github.com/godotengine/godot):
  - `git clone git@github.com:godotengine/godot.git` or
  - `git clone https://github.com/godotengine/godot.git`
- This branch uses version `4.1` so checkout the version with: `git checkout 4.1`
- Clone this module and put it into `godot/modules/javascript`:
  - `git clone git@github.com:godotjs/javascript.git godot/modules/javascript` or
  - `git clone https://github.com/godotjs/javascript.git godot/modules/javascript`
- [Recompile the godot engine](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/4.1/development/compiling/index.html)
  - Use `scons` with those additional options `warnings=extra werror=yes module_text_server_fb_enabled=yes` to show all potential errors:
    - Windows: `scons platform=windows warnings=extra werror=yes module_text_server_fb_enabled=yes`
    - MacOS: `scons platform=macos arch=arm64 warnings=extra werror=yes module_text_server_fb_enabled=yes`

## Documentation, Tutorials & Demos


Read this [documentation](https://godotjs.github.io/documentation/getting-started/) or look at the tutorials or demos:

- [ECMAScriptDemos](https://github.com/godotjs/javascriptDemos) - Demos
- [godot-ECMAScript-cookbook](https://github.com/why-try313/godot-ECMAScript-cookbook/wiki) - Tutorial
- [godot-typescript-starter](https://github.com/citizenll/godot-typescript-starter) - Template
- [godot-js-template](https://github.com/fukaraadam-workspace/godot-js-template) - Template

## Contributing

If you like to contribute to this project check the [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/godotjs/javascript/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) file.

Commit message:

fix: re-enable unit tests (#209)
* fix: unit tests were disabled

* chore: fix clang formatting

* fix: issue for codespell

* fix: issue with add_source_files for tests

* fix: black formatter

* chore: move formatting

* fix: disable some static checks

* fix: issue with cicd

* chore: align generation of files

README.md, after:

<picture>
  <source media="(min-width: 720px)" srcset="docs/header.svg">
  <img src="docs/header-mobile.svg" width="900" height="330" alt="GodotJS Logo">
</picture>

# **GodotJS**

***-- JavaScript and TypeScript language binding for Godot game engine --***

This module implements JavaScript/TypeScript language support for the Godot game engine using [QuickJS](https://bellard.org/quickjs/) as the JavaScript engine.


## Getting started

Read the [getting-started](https://godotjs.github.io/documentation/getting-started/).

## Features

- Almost complete ES2020 support
- All Godot API available
- Operator overriding for built-in types (Vector3, Color, etc)
- TypeScript support
- [Using third-party libraries from npm](https://github.com/GodotExplorer/ECMAScriptDemos/tree/master/npm_module)
- Multi-thread support with Worker API
- Full code completion support for all Godot APIs including signals and enumerations
- Debug in Visual Studio Code with the [plugin](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=geequlim.godot-javascript-debug) - currently not available for 4.x

## Getting the engine

No installation or setup necessary. The binaries for download are the complete, usable Godot editor and engine with JavaScript/TypeScript language support.

### Binary downloads

Download the binaries from the [release page](https://github.com/GodotExplorer/ECMAScript/releases).

### Compiling from source

- Clone the source code of [godot](https://github.com/godotengine/godot):
  - `git clone git@github.com:godotengine/godot.git` or
  - `git clone https://github.com/godotengine/godot.git`
- This branch uses version `4.1` so checkout the version with: `git checkout 4.1`
- Clone this module and put it into `godot/modules/javascript`:
  - `git clone git@github.com:godotjs/javascript.git godot/modules/javascript` or
  - `git clone https://github.com/godotjs/javascript.git godot/modules/javascript`
- [Recompile the godot engine](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/4.1/development/compiling/index.html)
  - Use `scons` with those additional options `warnings=extra werror=yes module_text_server_fb_enabled=yes` to show all potential errors:
    - Windows: `scons platform=windows warnings=extra werror=yes module_text_server_fb_enabled=yes`
    - MacOS: `scons platform=macos arch=arm64 warnings=extra werror=yes module_text_server_fb_enabled=yes`
  - **Hint**: To enable unit tests you need to add ``tests=true`` to `scons` arguments 

## Documentation, Tutorials & Demos


Read this [documentation](https://godotjs.github.io/documentation/getting-started/) or look at the tutorials or demos:

- [ECMAScriptDemos](https://github.com/godotjs/javascriptDemos) - Demos
- [godot-ECMAScript-cookbook](https://github.com/why-try313/godot-ECMAScript-cookbook/wiki) - Tutorial
- [godot-typescript-starter](https://github.com/citizenll/godot-typescript-starter) - Template
- [godot-js-template](https://github.com/fukaraadam-workspace/godot-js-template) - Template

## Contributing

If you like to contribute to this project check the [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/godotjs/javascript/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) file.
